Let's talk about testing
ARIA Solutions because it is so
easy to get wrong that we want
to make this easier if possible.
We don't wanna have to rely
on QA to catch everything.
They might not be specialized
in accessibility either.
You might know more than QA for a while.
So we wanna look out for
each other and try and
catch things while we have the opportunity
to fix them, even if you have QA,
because that feedback cycle
can just grow and grow.
So we wanna catch it right
in the moment if we can.
So testing early and often.
Here are some tips.
So when you're trying to choose,
can I use an ARIA attribute?
One tip I have after you've exhausted
every default HTML option available,
[LAUGH] start there.
But if you're like, well, we really wanna
try and make this more interactive.
It seems like there's a great
aria-attribute for this.
See if you can gather any of your site
analytics to see which browsers you need
to look out for, and
then you can cross-reference
the WebAIM screen reader surveys.
WebAIM is a group from Utah,
they're amazing.
And they put out these surveys every
few years on the commonly used
screen readers and combinations.
So if you have a lot of Windows traffic
and Chrome or Firefox, you can go down
this list and see, well, what are the
popular combinations for that browser.
And that can at least send you
in the right direction for
which things do we need to prioritize,
cuz you're not gonna be able to do all
of them so we have to rank somehow.
And you can use your site's
traffic to pick the browser and
then you can kind of learn
which screen readers,
do users commonly pair with
that by looking at this.
So then, I mean, we also wanna talk
to people who use screen readers,
just kind of putting that out there.
We don't wanna like go all the way
through this process and assume we know,
cuz we're doing our best, but most of
us are not daily screen reader users.
Just saying.
But another tool, so we've gathered our
analytics, accessibility support I/O or
a11y support.i/o is
a community driven effort to,
it's basically like a can I use for
ARIA attributes.
They're not all on here, but
let's say we wanted to use
aria-pressed for something and
I'd go check the aria spec make sure
I'm like understanding how it works.
The aria spec isn't gonna tell me
how well supported it is though.
So I can look here and
see that it only has partial support but
if I drill down into that it's actually
for the plain true false cases,
it's green and
supported all the way across the board.
So maybe it's pretty reliable for
more base use cases so
I could look I kind of skipped this step,
but we're gonna look at aria-pressed.
So I this is how I open it.
I open up ARIA.
This is, Way ARIA 1.2.
I tend to just search [LAUGH] in
the page for the attribute I want,
find the first linked version,
and click it.
And that'll get me there.
That's kind of my way of
finding my way around ARIA.
So this will tell me that this is only for
button roles.
So if I'm doing something
that's not a button role,
maybe aria-pressed isn't the right choice.
Maybe I need aria-checked or
aria-selected.
So aria-selected I could use on grid cell,
option, row, or tab.
So if I'm doing a tab switcher,
maybe aria-selected is what I need.
Aria-checked is one for
check boxes, radios, options,
and switches, switch buttons.
So if I'm doing one of those,
maybe aria-checked is what I need and
I can use that information with
this accessibility support IO.
So maybe aria-selected.
That one, just kind of mixed support,
but I could go test it.
This kind of helps me narrow it down.
This and my own analytics is like how
I can at least start to see a shape
to how I might prioritize, how I might
figure out how things are supported.
Cuz I could probably fire
it up in voiceover and
test it with Safari,
what are people using?
How do I know where else to look?
How do I know what else to test?
So this is how I kind of figure
out what the priorities are.
You could check out
the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide.
We saw that a little earlier.
It had some patterns on it.
They might have some suggestions of like
how to execute some of these patterns.
You could snoop around the issue
trackers for all the major accessibility
repositories like the MVDA screen
reader has an excellent issue tracker.
It's open source.
And some of the trickiest issues I've
found are on Windows, Windows and
mobile voiceover interestingly,
have been kind of tricky.
The ARIA spec is also developed
in the Open AI GitHub.
And so there's tons of info on there.
What CAG the actual standard for
our guidelines,
those are open source on GitHub, and
then WebKit and Safari, they have their
own bug tracker that it's a little bit
hard to search through, but it is open.
And then lastly, there's the WebAIM.
They have an email discussion
list that has years of archives.
So, and a lot of people on there either
work on browsers or screen readers.
I mean, they are like very influential
people who like answering questions,
and there's a great community around it.
So go search their archives.
In these repos,
I found solutions to things maybe that I
thought were problems but then I learned
how the screen readers were designed
around how blind people actually navigate.
And I could learn that I actually
misunderstood how that was
supposed to work.
Now, I get it.
And that was free information
that I found in these repos.
So these are some of the more
like tactical steps that
you could take to figure out
how to deal with ARIA Support,
cuz it's not perfect across the board.
And remember that screen readers are not
the only thing in accessibility.
So ARIA mostly targets screen readers and
assistive technologies.
But this is one piece of it.
So, yeah,
we kind of just have to remember that
when we're juggling all these priorities.
And so some things are just so
clearly blockers that they're so
severe that we have to fix them.
I just think, yeah, we have a lot of
balls in the air that we're trying to
balance everything and sometimes we have
to remember that people can still see
the screen sometimes, but
they can only use the keyboard or
they have motion sensitivity or
there's all these different use cases.
So we try to hit like
all of them somewhat.
Try to get the basics in general and
then we go into some of these
more obscure issues on certain
browsers and certain screen readers.